# <%= title %> API

## Usage

```bash
# install modules
npm install

# start in development mode
npm run dev

# start in production mode
# by building/updating the source first
npm build
npm start
```

## Docker

### Build latest image

```
docker build -t <%= name_internal %> .
```

### Use locally

Execute [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to run this project from the root folder:

```
docker-compose up
```

## Environment variables

Name       | Description | Example
---------- | ----------- | -------<% if (uses_api_key) { %>
`API_KEY` | The key to access to user for accessing the API services. | `API_KEY=mySecretAPIKey`
<% } %>`APP_ENV` | Defines the environment of the API application. | `APP_ENV=dev`
`APP_HOST` | Defines the host, the API should run on. | `APP_HOST=0.0.0.0`
`APP_PORT` | Defines the TCP port, the API should run on. | `APP_PORT=8080`
`LOCAL_DEVELOPMENT` | Defines if the API application runs locally. | `LOCAL_DEVELOPMENT=true`<% if (uses_mongodb) { %>
`MONGO_DB` | The name of the MongoDB database. | `MONGO_DB=<%= name_internal %>`
`MONGO_HOST` | The hostname of the MongoDB database server. | `MONGO_HOST=mongodb.example.com`
`MONGO_OPTIONS` | Additional options for the connection. s. [mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/) | `MONGO_OPTIONS=useNewUrlParser=true`
`MONGO_PASSWORD` | The password to use to connect to the MongoDB database. | `MONGO_PASSWORD=mySecretP@assword123#!`
`MONGO_PORT` | The TCP port of the MongoDB database server. | `MONGO_PORT=27017`
`MONGO_USER` | The username to use to connect to the MongoDB database. | `MONGO_USER=<% name_internal %>_user`<% } %>

## Start coding

Have a look at the following files, to get an idea how to work with the code.

Name       | Description
---------- | -----------
`/docs/api/index.html` | Open this file to view the current API documentation.
`/src/index.ts` | Application's entry point.<% if (uses_mongodb) { %>
`/src/mongodb.ts` | Contains the MongoDB database schema and the database class.
<% } %>`/src/api/v1/root.ts` | Contains example entry points.

## Document API endpoints

Execute

```bash
npm run apidoc
```

from your console to generate an up-to-date API documentation, located in `/src/api`, to `/docs/api`.

Have a look at [apiDoc website](http://apidocjs.com/) to get to know, how to document API endpoints.

## Credits

The project has been generated by [generator-ego](https://github.com/egodigital/generator-ego) for [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/).
